####9.2 Mutual Exclusion: sync.Mutex

The 3rd solution for race_condition(data race)
Using buffered channel to limit the number of goroutines accessing the variable to one. 
A binary_semaphore

see ex. bank2

This common pattern of mutual exclusion is useful that is supported by sync.Mutex package/type. 
The Lock method acquires the token 'lock' and 'Unlock' releases
see ex. bank3

TODO: encapsulation

####9.3 Read/Write Mutexes: sync.RWMutex

multiple readers, single writer lock:
many read-only functions to run in parallel but write operations
have full exclusive access. This prevents too many read requests 
from locking up the variable.

sync.RWMutex is the provided lock for this

ex 
```
var mu syn.RWMutex
var balance int

func Balance() int {
    mu.Rlock() //readers lock
    defer mu.Runlock()
    return balance
}
```


####9.4 Memory Synchronization

####9.5 Lazy Initialization: sync.Once

Init variables in the beginning can cause longer start up 
and could not even be used. Lazy init, init the variables when 
it is going to be used.

To make concurrent-safe different goroutines accessing 
to check to init can incorrectly assume. Using a mutex can
synchronize and guard, making sure its only init once.

And since init will only write once, a read write mutex would be 
good for the multiple reads.

sync has a sync.Once that does this easy.

ex
```go
var loadIconsOnce sync.Once
var icons map[string]image.Image

//concurrency-safe
func Icon(name string) image.Image {
    loadIconsOnce.Do(loadIcons)
    return icons[name]
}
```

####9.6 The Race Detector
The Go tools includes -race to go build, go run, and go test
Records all accesses to shared variables with id of the goroutine.

####9.7 Example: Concurrent Non-blocking cache

memo4 uses duplicate suppression to avoid the redundant work of two goroutines 
reading from the empty cache and overwriting each other.

A map will have a pointer to structs that contain the function that is cached 
but in addition contains a channel called "ready". After entry is set the channel 
will be closed and broadcast(8.9) to any other goroutines that it is now ready to be 
read.

####9.8 Goroutines and threads

OS threads are fixed often 2MB and be adjusted. Goroutines are not fixed and start at 2kb and can 
go up to 1GB.


OS threads are scheduled by OS kernel. Passing control to another thread requires 
"context switch" the state is saved of one users thread to memory, restoring another. 
This operation is slow and gets more expensive with more CPU cycles.

Go runtime has own scheduler, uses technique "m:n scheduling", multiplexes(or schedules) 
m goroutines on n OS threads. Instead of periodically interupted by hardware timer 
its implicitly called by Go language constructs. 
For ex. time.Sleep or blocks channel or mutex operation, the scheduler puts the goroutine to sleep 
and runs another until its time to wake up the original. Doesnt need to switch to 
kernel context, rescheduling a goroutine is cheaper that a thread.

#####9.8.3 GOMAXPROCS

GOMAXPROCS is the parameter to determine how many OS threads may be actively executed 
at the same time. Default is the number of CPUs.
Goroutines that are sleeping, blocked I/O or communications, system calls or other 
non-Go function calls do not need an OS thread.

#####9.8.4 Goroutines have no identity

Many os and languages have each thread with its own identity that can be obtained 
as a value like int or pointer. This makes it possible to build 
an abstraction called "thread-local storage" which is a global map keyed by thread id.

By design, Go does not have this, since it tends to be abused. Just like with global variables 
the funcs will not be determined by the arguments alone by also by the id of the thread.
